resources.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Resources
nav_order: 2
description: >-
    Some resources to help you succeed in this class
---


# Resources
{:.no_toc}

Here is a collection of resources that will help you learn more about some of the skills and concepts covered during class. There are plenty of resources on the internet and sometimes is hard to know what are *good* resources. We encourage you to check this and other materials and deepen your knowledge beyond the classroom.

Jump to:
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Course Notes

We will have a running document during class sharing some of the basic concepts discussed on each lecture and share some resources and clarify doubts during each session. 

## Recommended textbooks

### Causal Inference
 - Angrist & Pischke - [Mostly Harmless Econometrics](https://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/13562352)
 - Cunningham - [The Mixtape](https://mixtape.scunning.com/)
 - Hernan & Robins - [Causal Inference: What If](https://miguelhernan.org/whatifbook) 
 - Imbens & Rubin - [Causal inference for statistics, social, and biomedical sciences : an introduction](https://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/10968472)

## Coding resources

Linux Terminal and HPC:
 - [MIT's The Missing Semester][4] ✨ Please read this one ✨
 - [Stanford's Intro to HPC][7]
 - [Julia Evans' comics about tools and programming][5] ❤️

Python:
 - [Python for Data Science][1]
 - [Learn Pandas][2]
 - [Spatial Analysis in Python][3]
 - [Stanford CS106A Python Guide][6]


[1]: http://wavedatalab.github.io/datawithpython/index.html
[2]: https://www.kaggle.com/learn/pandas
[3]: https://sustainability-gis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html
[4]: https://missing.csail.mit.edu
[5]: https://wizardzines.com/
[6]: https://cs.stanford.edu/people/nick/py/python-command.html
[7]: https://stanford-rc.github.io/hpc-intro/

Commit message:

Faculty feedback and changes to materials
In this commit I change:
 - Structure of the schedule: deadlines on mondays, and be clearer about
   things for each week.
 - Add Marshall's OH
 - Add an assignemnts page to describe how to submit and run the
   assignments.
 - Update syllabus with winter/spring class descriptions.

Bugs:
 - Allow CSS to render keyboard keys
 - Change broken links because of change of the markdown paths in
   resources.
 - Change FAQs to leave them at the bottom of navigation

resources.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Resources
nav_order: 2
description: >-
    Some resources to help you succeed in this class
---


# Resources
{:.no_toc}

Here is a collection of resources that will help you learn more about some of the skills and concepts covered during class. There are plenty of resources on the internet and sometimes is hard to know what are *good* resources. We encourage you to check this and other materials and deepen your knowledge beyond the classroom.

Jump to:
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Course Notes

We will have a running document during class sharing some of the basic concepts discussed on each lecture and share some resources and clarify doubts during each session. 

## Recommended textbooks

### Spatial Data
 - Lloyd - [Spatial Data Analysis: an introduction to GIS users](https://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/8570874)

### Causal Inference
 - Angrist & Pischke - [Mostly Harmless Econometrics](https://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/13562352)
 - Cunningham - [The Mixtape](https://mixtape.scunning.com/)
 - Hernan & Robins - [Causal Inference: What If](https://miguelhernan.org/whatifbook) 
 - Imbens & Rubin - [Causal inference for statistics, social, and biomedical sciences : an introduction](https://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/10968472)

 ## Coding resources

### Linux Terminal and HPC:
 - [MIT's The Missing Semester][4] ✨ Please read this one ✨
 - [Stanford's Intro to HPC][7]
 - [Julia Evans' comics about tools and programming][5] ❤️

### Python:
 - [Python for Data Science][1]
 - [Learn Pandas][2]
 - [Spatial Analysis in Python][3]
 - [Stanford CS106A Python Guide][6]

### R:
 - [R for Data Science][8] ✨ Please read this one ✨
 - [UBC's STAT545][9]
 - [Hadley Wickham][10] 


[1]: http://wavedatalab.github.io/datawithpython/index.html
[2]: https://www.kaggle.com/learn/pandas
[3]: https://sustainability-gis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html
[4]: https://missing.csail.mit.edu
[5]: https://wizardzines.com/
[6]: https://cs.stanford.edu/people/nick/py/python-command.html
[7]: https://stanford-rc.github.io/hpc-intro/
[8]: https://r4ds.hadley.nz
[9]: https://stat545.com/
[10]: https://style.tidyverse.org/
[11]: https://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/8570874
